COSC431 

Information Retrieval 

Assignment 2 

PREAMBLE 
This assignment is worth 20% of your final grade.  Written answers will be emailed as a PDF in the 
ACM proceedings format.  Templates are available here: 
https://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template 
21 May 2018 
DUE DATE:  
20 marks 
PART 1: REPORT 
Information  retrieval  is  such  a  broad  field  there  is  no  practical  way  to  expose  everyone  to  all  of  it.  
Equally,  what  Andrew  finds  interesting  is  not  necessarily  what  you  find  interesting.    For  this 
assignment you are to find an information retrieval topic of interest to you and write a report on it. 
 
Do this: 
Choose, from the list of sources below, a paper that was published in the last 18 months (or is a pre-
print of a paper to be published). Choose at least two additional related papers from reputable sources 
on the same topic (for example from the references of your chosen paper). 
 
Write a report of exactly four pages on the topic of your choice. Your report will have at least a title, 
abstract,  introduction,  conclusion  and  references  (you  will  have  to  reference  your  chosen  papers).  
The references will be formatted according to the ACM proceedings format (see any SIGIR paper for 
an example). 

    REFERENCES
    [1] Burton H Bloom. 1970. Space/time trade-offs in hash coding with allowable
    errors. Commun. ACM 13, 7 (1970), 422–426.
    [2] Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page. 1998. The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual
    Web Search Engine. Computer Networks 30, 1-7 (1998), 107–117
 
In  your  report  you  should  outline  the  research  questions  and  main  contribution  of  each  paper  you 
select. You should discuss how the papers you chose are  related to each other.  Finally,  you  should 
formulate two new research questions in the area and discuss how you would address these. 

List of sources 
Journals 

Information Retrieval Journal (IRJ) 

• 
•  ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS) 
• 
• 

Information Processing & Management (IP&M) 
Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology (JASIST)  

Conferences 

•  Annual ACM Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR) 
•  Conference on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM) 
•  The IR evaluation forums: TREC, CLEF, NTCIR, FIRE 
•  Symposium on String Processing and Information Retrieval (SPIRE) 
•  Australasian Document Computing Symposium (ADCS) 
•  European Conference on Information Retrieval (ECIR) 
• 

International Conference on the Theory of Information Retrieval (ICTIR) 
 

 
PART 2: PRESENTATION 
30 May 2018 
You chose something so interesting in PART 1 that you are excited to tell the class all about it.  This is 
your chance.  During the lecture on this date we’ll turn the class over to you.  Present your work to the 
class rather than listening to me. 
 

no marks 

